<h1>Building Greater Visual Experiences for Modern Gaming Websites (A Brief Discourse on Web-Design Tools and Techniques)</h1>

I published this article on Quora initially, to answer the common questions about how to style websites for greater visual experiences. The sections below detail the most common tools used to outfit modern websites (both in raw HTML and on Content Management System platforms such as Wordpress, Square, and Wrike). This article is published here as well as a corollary to my development in creating games within web-driven environments, as well as to demonstrate design knowledge on building supporting content platforms around websites built for gaming studios and titles.

<h2>Full Page / Boxed Sections</h2>
Full page sections. With this styling, your sections run 100% of the page width, and automatically adjust to the height as you add or take away content. Full page websites provide a flatter, richer user feeling, and is synonymous with vastness but also less control. My website https://www.qc.sg uses this style. The box layout, on the other hand, constrains content to the fixed width of the section (e.g. 800px width) and leaves lots of space on the left and right. Think of Facebook's layout on a desktop. This style is synonymous with limiting content but also providing more control. Try making your sections at 100% to get a fully unboxed webpage.

<h2>Typefaces</h2>
Typefaces can make a big difference to your website's visual appearance. Because so many websites are text-intensive, a great typeface can make a positive difference. And we can't get away from a typeface since the default text on any website uses a typeface. So we might as well take control. There are plenty of professional-grade typeface providers for websites, including http://cloud.typography.com (H&Co.), WebType from the Font Bureau, and Typekit from Adobe. These require paid subscriptions. But if you're looking for free and quality webkits, Google's  font library is awesome. Simply pick a typeface, pick the weights you want to use (regular, semi-bold, bold) and Google generates the CSS / HTML link for you automatically. It even tells you where to place the link. Paste the link into your site and now you've got a great typeface. I personally recommend Oxygen, Open Sans, PT Sans Caption, PT Sans, and Varela Round. There are a lot of typefaces though so browse and pick the ones that appeal to you. On the topic of typefaces, don't forget to adjust the line-height property in CSS. This puts additional space (leading) between your sentences which makes it much easier to read.

<h2>Pop-Up Boxes</h2>
Pop-ups can be annoying when used for advertising, but are quite cool when used for filling in a form to login. You can style your own pop-up login form or pop-up notification quite easily by creating a div. When doing this, try experimenting with border radius. This CSS property makes your edges rounded or straight. A gently rounded div can give a playful, appealing edge to your pop up boxes. Border radius properties can be independently set as well so you can have the top left and bottom right corner rounded with the others straight, for example. The border-radius property can be set in a lot of units, including pixels (px),  and percentages (%). Now, if you want your div (pop-up or not) to be a perfect circle, set your border-radius to 50%. That way you get a circular div which may look great in the right setting and is very easy to accomplish.

<h2>Animating Boxes with JavaScript with CSS</h2>
CSS3 is evolving very nicely, and there are some very cool effects you can achieve just by using CSS. The css.animate property is really cool though not as simple as the other points we've discussed so far. But you can use this CSS / JavaScript property to slide in and slide out / fade-in and fade-out your divs, pop-up boxes, blocks of text etc. Rather than just appearing and disappearing like the browser's alert box, this effect is smooth and may get your site visitors to click a few times, which is great.

<h2>Buttons</h2>
When you use the HTML <button> tag, you're going to get a browser-generated version of a button, which is not always the best looking. Instead style your buttons in CSS by giving them a background-color, width, height, and border-radius. This immensely increases the appeal of your site's buttons and after all, we do want visitors to click through our content. I recommend styling every button on your site but that's just me.

<h2>Colors</h2>
This is where many of us go nuts because what's the best color to use and in what swatch combination? Fortunately, after years of looking I found an awesome site that gives you a large complement of flat-design colors. Here's the link: http://flatuicolors.com/ As the URL and page title suggests, the color swatches are specifically selected for their visual appeal in flat design, which is all the rage at the moment. But more than that, these colors render beautifully on small and large screens (design note: the size of an object can influence how we perceive a color. For e.g. a red could look deeper red if the box is small, and lighter when enlarged). Pick a maximum of four colors for your site. Any more and the theme may get lost.

<h2>Animated GIFs</h2>
Because it's just so much fun to do, there's a tendency to go overboard with animated GIFs. But in the right amount, they work great. Keep your animated GIFs to few colors so as not to overwhelm the experience. They're a great alternative to very short instructional videos (how to fill in your site's form, or where to download an article from), and add credibility to your site.

<h2>Tool Tips</h2>
A tool tip is a small (sometimes large) box that appears when a user hovers over a piece of text or an image. You can easily add tooltips to your site by designing your own divs (see the pop-up section) then using JavaScript and css.animate to generate them. Because tooltips are used for additional helpful information, use a nice, clear typeface when creating your content inside the tooltip. A tooltip usually requires a div with an arrow pointing to your content (left, right, top or bottom). It's quite easy to make these divs with arrows. I'll be uploading a video on YouTube in a few days on how to do these but there are plenty of videos and articles already present so just do a search on this topic. Like everything else, resist the temptation to go overboard with tooltips.

<h2>Dynamic Charts</h2>
If you're presenting data (population growth, climate change, number of visitors to Paris each month etc.) it's nice to have a chart (pie chart or bar graphs) that animate or slide when users click on these. JavaScript and CSS again are your friends here so definitely make use of these languages to add interactivity to your charts. You can use a simple sliding effect to show growth, changes etc. There are lots of code snippets online, on how to achieve these effects, and they're quite easy to implement. I have simple sliders on my site so check it out the effects.

<h2>Effects and User Experience</h2>
I've picked fairly simple effects to use (there are plenty others, and still more with more complex applications) but these make a big difference since they are the most popular items you'll find on a website. When applying effects, it's best to aim for a design goal you'd like to achieve. Therefore focus on user-experience, and not so much on features. Otherwise we'll run the risk of overwhelming our visitors. It's great to experiment with these, but when the final product is out, keep it focused on usability. (Like the old copywriting maxim: don't use seven words, when four will do). Visit Themeforest's WordPress section and check out the themes. Many of the best effects on the web are designed into these themes so there's a great source of inspiration to find the best effects using HTML / CSS / and JavaScript. Also, try to wireframe your website's effects using PowerPoint or Keynote to see what the effects will look like. I like to do a rough mock up and layout of my site on Keynote, then add one or two bits of interactivity to see how the effect looks. It's a great strategy that works for me, since animation on these programs is very easy to add. Try this tactic and see if it works in giving you an idea of your website's ultimate effects and experiences.
